# CSS Visual Formatting Model - Programmer All

**Author:** programmerall.com  
**Full title:** CSS Visual Formatting Model - Programmer All  
**URL:** https://programmerall.com/article/4150414771/  
**Source:** #articles #instapaper #readwise

- The visual formatting model generates 0, 1 or more boxes for each element of the document according to the CSS box model 
   
- Box types: block-level box, inline-level box, inline-box, atomic inline-level box 
   
- A box is rendered relative to the boundary of its containing block. Usually a box creates a containing block for its descendant elements 
   
- When its layout goes outside the containing block, it is called overflow. 
   
- The definition of a containing block is different from the concept of a block container box. 
   
- Box generation 
   
- generate boxes from document elements. 
   
- The type of generated box depends on the CSS property display 
   
- Block-level-box:Block-level boxes participate in the block formatting context. 
   
- Each block-level element generates at least one block-level box, which is called a principal block-level box. 
   
- Some elements, such as <li>, generate additional boxes to place bullets, but most elements only generate a main block-level box. 
   
- Block-container box:Except for the table box and replaceable elements, the block-level boxes are all block container boxes 
   
- The block container box either contains only block-level boxes (except table boxes and replaceable elements), or generates an inline formatting context (inline formatting context, which contains only inline boxes, such as inline-block). 
   
- Block boxes:A box that is both a block-level box and a block container box is a block box. 
   
- element:Elements are the basis of the document structure. In CSS, each element generates a box containing content. 
   
- Replacement elements usually have inherent dimensions: an inherent width, an inherent height, and an inherent ratio 
   
- Some CSS properties such as vertical-align may use the intrinsic size or baseline of the replacement element 
   
- Non-replaceable elements 
   
- All other elements except replacement elements are non-replaceable elements. 
   
- visual formatting model is responsible for the rendering of non-replaceable elements and can be displayed directly. For example, <div>, <p>. 
   
- Anonymous block box 
   
- Anonymous block boxes are supplementary boxes added as needed. 
   
- Anonymous block boxes have no name and cannot be selected by CSS. All CSS property values ​​are inherit, and non-inherited CSS property values ​​are initial. 
   
- The block container box either contains only inline-level boxes or only block-level boxes 
   
- An inline box contains one or several block boxes. In this case, the inline box containing the block box will be split into two inline boxes placed before and after the block box, and then contained by two anonymous block boxes. 
   
- Inline-level elements and inline boxes 
   
- Inline-level elements:display is inline, line-block, inline-table 
   
- Inline-level boxes:Inline-level elements generate inline-level boxes and participate in inline formatting context. 
   
- Inline boxes:Non-replaceable elements (<div>, <span>), if display is inline, a line box will be generated. 
   
- Atomic inline-level boxes:Inline-level boxes except for line boxes are atomic-level line boxes, such as replaceable inline blocks, inline-block elements, and inline-table elements. 
   
- Anonymous inline boxes 
   
- Any text that is directly contained in a block container element instead of an inline element will form an anonymous inline box 
   
- Anonymous inline boxes have no name and cannot be selected by CSS. All CSS properties are inherited, and non-inherited CSS properties are initial 
   
- If the type of an anonymous box can be clearly defined according to the context, both anonymous inline boxes and anonymous block boxes can be referred to as anonymous boxes 
   
- Other types of boxes 
   
- Line boxes: Line boxes are boxes generated by the in-line formatting context to represent a line 
   
- In the block box, the line box is typeset from one side of the block box to the other side of the block box 
   
- When there is a float, the line box is typeset from the rightmost floating left to the leftmost floating right. 
   
- Run-in boxes: The boxes defined in CSS3 are defined by display: run-in, and the type of the subsequent box determines whether it is a block box or a line box. Can be used to insert headings in a paragraph. 
   
- Table content model: You can create a table wrapper box, or you can create special boxes, such as caption boxes. 
   
- Multi-column content model: You can create column boxes between the container box and the content 
   
- The experimental grid, flexbox content model also creates new box types. 
   
- Positioning schemes (Position schemes) 
   
